{"摘要": {"text": "The accurate calculation of seismic traveltime based on the eikonal equation has numerous applications in geophysics. We propose utilizing a hybrid model that combines the Deep Operator Network (DeepONet) with the Fourier Neural Operator (FNO) to simulate seismic traveltime under the guidance of eikonal equation. We refer to this approach as the Physics-Informed Fourier-DeepONet (PI-Fourier-DeepONet)."}, "引言_地震走时": {"text": "Seismic traveltime describes the wave propagation time from the source location to any given point within a velocity model. Seismic traveltime is governed by the eikonal equation. The eikonal equation, as a first-order nonlinear partial differential equation (PDE), is typically solved using the Fast Marching Method (FMM) and the Fast Sweeping Method (FSM)."}, "引言_深度学习与PINN": {"text": "The advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) has enabled rapid, high-fidelity, and multi-scale simulations. Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) directly learn solutions at irregularly distributed points across the entire spatiotemporal domain in a single training pass. PINNs have been successfully applied to seismic traveltime problems."}, "引言_神经算子": {"text": "Neural operators can serve as a fast and accurate alternative to numerical methods. FNO enhances computational efficiency by performing the convolution in the frequency domain. DeepONet consists of two sub-networks, referred to as Branch and Trunk."}, "方法_模型架构": {"text": "We introduce a hybrid neural network that combines two types of neural operators and integrates them with a physics-constrained loss function to simulate seismic traveltimes. We use the background traveltime as the input to the Trunk. The final output is the predicted target traveltime, which is used in the PDE loss function calculation."}, "结果_实验分析": {"text": "We validated the proposed method with four velocity families from OpenFWI: FlatFault-A, CurveFault-A, CurveVel-B, and Style-A. The Fourier layers, by extracting global features in the frequency domain, enhance the operator learning capability. PI-Fourier-DeepONet provides traveltime predictions that are close to the FMM results for different velocity families."}, "结论": {"text": "In this work, we utilize neural operators and PINNs to study traveltime under various complex geological conditions. The proposed PI-Fourier-DeepONet method is adaptable to various geological structures and provides accurate traveltime predictions, eliminating the need to generate traveltime labels through traditional numerical methods."}}